[Design] Accountability, ToP, Budget & Salary (#4)
ezgimez/SOMAS-Final-Report: 05_iigo/index.tex

                \item This does not mean that the Judge has the \emph{power} to take resources from an island in order to put them to the common pool -- the island itself is expected to carry out this implication imposed by the sanction itself, otherwise further punishment can be induced by the Judge.
                \item Similarly, \emph{opinion formulation} will follow accordingly whether the island(s) is/are following the implications imposed by the sanction(s).
            \end{itemize}

    \end{itemize}

>     Sanctions are the associated penalty that comes with an island breaking a specific rule. The Judge is in full control of the penalties associated with breaking any rules. Once the Judge has specified the score of the penalty associated with each time an island breaks a rule, the cumulative penalties accumulated by the island are then used to determine which \textbf{sanction tier} that each island falls into. The score threshold to determine the boundaries of the sanction tiers are set by the Judge. At each turn of the game, each island is told whether they are being sanctioned, and if so, which \textbf{sanction tier} that they are currently in. The \textbf{sanction tiers} of the non-compliant islands are also broadcasted to the other islands in the archipelago. To summarize, the sanctioning process follows these steps:

Reviewer: lol ok

Author: whitespace error?

Reviewer: no no :D
summarise ---> summarize :)

Author: Its what my autocorrect told me to do

Reviewer: ok

    \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

%Unlike investigations performed by the Judge, who performs investigations on island actions in the following turn, each role is given the opportunity to check up on the actions of the role it is responsible for immediately after they have been performed. In this sense, the President can monitor (includes investigative-monitoring) the powers (calling a vote and announcing the result) acted on by the Speaker immediately after the Speaker's announcement (or lack there of). The government officials hold a lot of power so this is to ensure that any wrong-doing is determined as quickly as possible. For this project we are only pursuing one degree of monitoring, that is, the powers relating to the accountability cycle will not be monitored themselves. We assume that agents will act in the interest of themselves and keeping all the islands alive is beneficial to everyone. Hence, while the agents might be inclined to break rules in order to benefit themselves, anyone else breaking the rules is seen as undesirable under the assumption that the system in place is there to benefit all.

> The result of monitoring is intended to be a trigger for the initiation of power transfer, whereby a declaration of a negative result indicates that at least one rule was broken by the role monitored and the role should be re-elected. Each turn, in addition to monitoring the actions taken by the role in that IIGO session, the election that role held in the previous IIGO session, if one was held at all, is checked for compliance with the rules of power-transfer.

Reviewer: yes, thanks -- good suggestion

> Figure~ \ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO} illustrates the reverse nature of the monitoring and power transfer cycles. This is a choice made by design to spread out the process of pre-mature removal from power as a result of wrongdoing. The goal is to avoid malice. If it is one role's power to monitor, it is the other's to initiate and facilitate power transfer. Hence the latter is given a second opinion for cases where the declaration of wrongdoing is not truthful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Figure~ \ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO} illustrates the reverse nature of the monitoring and transfer-of-power cycles. This is a design choice specifically made in order to avoid any premature removal of an island from the power as a result of wrongdoing and to avoid malice. If it is one role's power to monitor, it is the other role's power to initiate and facilitate power transfer. Hence the latter is given a second opinion for cases where the declaration of wrongdoing is not truthful.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Figure~ \ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO} illustrates the reverse nature of the monitoring and transfer-of-power cycles. This is a design choice made to diversify the islands that hold the powers that enable the process of a role's premature removal from power as a result of wrongdoing, hence helping to avoid malice. If it is one role's power to monitor, it is the other role's power to initiate and facilitate power transfer. Hence the latter is given a second opinion for cases where the declaration of wrongdoing is not truthful.
```

Reviewer: ok

> Within the scope of the coursework, we decided to pursue only \emph{one degree of monitoring}, meaning that the powers relating to the accountability cycle will not be monitored themselves. We assume that agents will act in the interest of all the islands in the archipelago. Hence, while the agents might be inclined to break the rules to benefit in some form, it is assumed that the others will negatively see any non-compliant islands based on the assumption that the proposed IIGO system is in place to maintain the welfare of all the islands. We still have rules governing this process (see Rule~\ref{rule:monitoring_1} and Rule~\ref{rule:monitoring_2}), however these rules are not enforced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the scope of the coursework, we decided to pursue only \emph{one degree of monitoring}, meaning that the powers relating to the accountability cycle will not be monitored themselves. We assume that agents will act in the interest of all the islands in the archipelago. Hence, while the agents might be inclined to break the rules to benefit in some form, it is assumed that the others will negatively see any non-compliant islands based on the assumption that the proposed IIGO system is in place to maintain the welfare of all the islands. We still have rules governing this process (see Rule~\ref{rule:monitoring_1} and Rule~\ref{rule:monitoring_2}) although these rules are not enforced.
```

> The \emph{one degree of monitoring} is another justification for the reverse nature of the monitoring and power transfer cycles. The addition of a second opinion means that a role does not hold the power to both wrongfully declare wrongdoing and hold an election for the same role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \emph{one degree of monitoring} is another justification for the reverse nature of the monitoring and transfer-of-power cycles. The addition of a second opinion means that a role is not able to hold the power by simultaneously wrongfully declaring the wrongdoing and holding an election for the same role.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The \emph{one degree of monitoring} is another justification for the reverse nature of the monitoring and transfer-of-power cycles. The addition of a second opinion means that a role does not hold the power to both wrongfully declare wrongdoing and hold an election for the same role.
```

I don't understand the second sentence you have made

Reviewer: ignore my suggestion, sorry.

your suggestion is good

Let role $X$ be accountable to the role $Y$, which is accountable to the role $Z$. Then:
\begin{rule_IIGO} \label{rule:monitoring_1}
    $Y$ has the \emph{obligation} to declare the outcome of the monitoring result $M$ associated with the action $A$ undertaken by $X$ if and only if $Y$ has monitored the action $A$ performed by $X$.
\end{rule_IIGO}
\begin{rule_IIGO} \label{rule:monitoring_2}

>     $Y$ has the \emph{permission} to declare the monitoring result $M$ associated with the action $A$ undertaken by $X$ if and only if $M = M^{*}$, where $M^{*}$ is the outcome of \emph{monitoring} action $A$ performed by $X$\footnote{These constitutional rules should be available to the agents to check their decisions against. However, due to having only one degree of accountability cycle in place, these rules are not enforced through any sanctions (i.e. breaking these rules has no consequence as they are only deemed to be an \emph{agreement} between the roles).}.

Reviewer: thank you, good suggestion

    \item The Speaker has the \emph{power} to: 
    \begin{itemize}
        \item monitor the President.

>         \item declare the result of this monitoring and oblige the Judge to initiate power transfer for the President, if the monitoring result indicates wrongdoing.

Reviewer: we have to separate them... very long sentence

Author: I listed them together because one happens as a result of the other. In this case, they are not separate powers and cannot be performed by the agents independently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        \item declare the result of this monitoring and if the monitoring result indicates wrongdoing, oblige the Judge to initiate power transfer for the President, .
```

Author: "if the monitoring result indicates wrongdoing" the power does not have this limitation

    \end{itemize}
    \item The President has the \emph{power} to: 
    \begin{itemize}
        \item monitor the Judge.

>         \item declare the result of this monitoring and oblige the Speaker to initiate power transfer for the Judge, if the monitoring result indicates wrongdoing.

Reviewer: similarly, we have to separate them.. long sentence

AND no comma before 'if'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        \item declare the result of this monitoring and if the monitoring result indicates wrongdoing, oblige the Speaker to initiate power transfer for the Judge.
```

    \end{itemize}
    \item The Judge has the \emph{power} to: 
    \begin{itemize}
        \item  monitor the Speaker.

>         \item declare the result of this monitoring and oblige the President to initiate power transfer for the Speaker, if the monitoring result indicates wrongdoing.

Reviewer: again, long itemize..

break it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        \item declare the result of this monitoring and if the monitoring result indicates wrongdoing, oblige the President to initiate power transfer for the Speaker.
```

Figure~ \ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO} illustrates the reverse nature of the monitoring and power transfer cycles. This is a choice made by design to spread out the process of pre-mature removal from power as a result of wrongdoing. The goal is to avoid malice. If it is one role's power to monitor, it is the other's to initiate and facilitate power transfer. Hence the latter is given a second opinion for cases where the declaration of wrongdoing is not thruthful.

Within the scope of the coursework, we decided to pursue only \emph{one degree of monitoring}, meaning that the powers relating to the accountability cycle will not be monitored themselves. We assume that agents will act in the interest of all the islands in the archipelago. Hence, while the agents might be inclined to break the rules to benefit in some form, it is assumed that the others will negatively see any non-compliant islands based on the assumption that the proposed IIGO system is in place to maintain the welfare of all the islands. We still have rules governing this process (see Rule~\ref{rule:monitoring_1} and Rule~\ref{rule:monitoring_2}), however these rules are not enforced.

> The \emph{one degree of monitoring} is another justification for the reverse nature of the monitoring and power transfer cycles. The addition of a second opionion means that a role does not hold the power to both wrongfully declare wrongdoing and hold an election for the same role. 

Reviewer: **transfer-of-power** cycles

the addition of a WHAT?
I don't understand your last sentence -- can oyu revise

Let role $X$ be accountable to the role $Y$, which is accountable to the role $Z$. Then:
\begin{rule_IIGO} \label{rule:monitoring_1}
    $Y$ has the \emph{obligation} to declare the outcome of the monitoring result $M$ associated with the action $A$ undertaken by $X$ if and only if $Y$ has monitored the action $A$ performed by $X$. 
\end{rule_IIGO}
\begin{rule_IIGO} \label{rule:monitoring_2}

>     $Y$ has the \emph{permission} to declare the monitoring result $M$ associated with the action $A$ undertaken by $X$ if and only if $M = M^{*}$, where $M^{*}$ is the outcome of \emph{monitoring} action $A$ performed by $X$\footnote{These constitutional rules should be available to the agents to check their decision against. However, due to having only one degree of accountability cycle in place, these rules are not enforced through any sanctions (i.e. breaking these rules has no consequences as they only deem to be an \emph{agreement} among the roles).}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    $Y$ has the \emph{permission} to declare the monitoring result $M$ associated with the action $A$ undertaken by $X$ if and only if $M = M^{*}$, where $M^{*}$ is the outcome of \emph{monitoring} action $A$ performed by $X$\footnote{These constitutional rules should be available to the agents to check their decisions against. However, due to having only one degree of accountability cycle in place, these rules are not enforced through any sanctions (i.e. breaking these rules has no consequence as they are only deemed to be an \emph{agreement} between the roles).}.
```

\subsection{Transfer-of-power}
\label{subsec:transfer-of-power}

> For the scope of this project we chose only one system of power transfer for the islands to utilise, and it is an election. The islands that hold institutional power are the decision group of the archipellago. They decide on taxes, allocations and sanctions. By holding an election for the institutional roles, the islands are not directly included in the decision group, but they do participate in deciding who will occupy these roles, who makes the aforementioned decisions. An election also opens up another avenue for opinion formation to have an effect. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the scope of this project, we chose elections to be the only system of power transfer for the islands to utilise. The islands that hold institutional power are the decision group of the archipelago. They decide on taxes, allocations and sanctions. By holding an election for the institutional roles, the islands are not directly included in the decision group, but they do participate in deciding who will occupy these roles and thus who makes the aforementioned decisions. Elections also open up another avenue for opinion formation to have an effect. 
```

Author: You are a natural at this english thing

> For the scope of this project we chose only one system of power transfer for the islands to utilise, and it is an election. The islands that hold institutional power are the decision group of the archipellago. They decide on taxes, allocations and sanctions. By holding an election for the institutional roles, the islands are not directly included in the decision group, but they do participate in deciding who will occupy these roles, who makes the aforementioned decisions. An election also opens up another avenue for opinion formation to have an effect. 

Reviewer: **For the scope of this coursework,**

Reviewer: transfer-of-power

Reviewer: we chose to implement only _one_ system

Reviewer: decision group?? what you mean

Reviewer: I liked the last sentence <3

\begin{itemize}

>     \item Each role has the \emph{power} to call an election vote and declare the winner (see Figure~ \ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO} for the power transfer cycle). 

Reviewer: transfer-of-power cycle

\end{itemize}

We note that:
\begin{enumerate}

>     \item The Speaker conducts an election for the election of the new Judge.

Reviewer: yes, better!

>     \item The Speaker conducts an election for the election of the new Judge.
>     \item The Judge conducts an election for the election of the new President.
>     \item The President conducts an election for the election of the new Speaker.

Reviewer 2: can we not use election twice in one sentence here? i've suggested appoint but whatever rewording you would prefer is good
```suggestion
    \item The Speaker conducts an election to appoint a new Judge.
    \item The Judge conducts an election to appoint a new President.
    \item The President conducts an election to appoint a new Speaker.
```

Author: ahahahaha wtf

\end{enumerate}
Refer to the Figure~ \ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO} for further clarification about the transfer-of-power cycle.

> We introcude a \emph{term} length to futher spread out the diversity of the decision group. If the Rule~\ref{rule:roles_must_hold_election} is in play, the roles are obliged to hold an election every N turns. To reduce the scope of the coursework, the term length is defined as a configuration parameter. Thus we reduce the complexity of reasoning the agents have to do with reagard to the transfer-of-power of roles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We introduce a \emph{term} length to increase the diversity of the decision group. If the Rule~\ref{rule:roles_must_hold_election} is in play, the roles are obliged to hold an election every N turns. To reduce the scope of the coursework, the term length is defined as a configuration parameter. Thus we reduce the complexity of reasoning the agents have to do with reagard to the transfer-of-power of roles.
```

> We introcude a \emph{term} length to futher spread out the diversity of the decision group. If the Rule~\ref{rule:roles_must_hold_election} is in play, the roles are obliged to hold an election every N turns. To reduce the scope of the coursework, the term length is defined as a configuration parameter. Thus we reduce the complexity of reasoning the agents have to do with reagard to the transfer-of-power of roles.

Reviewer: some typos here -- revise.

comma after:
Thus,

Reviewer: math mode for N
`$N$`

> \begin{rule_IIGO} \label{rule:roles_must_hold_election}

Reviewer: announcement..
typo!
finish by a DOT. at the end

Reviewer: `$N$` 

 To reduce the scope of the coursework,  ---> delete.
 
 **The term length for each IIGO role is defined as a configuration parameter.**   this can stay
 
 Thus we reduce the complexity of reasoning the agents have to do with reagard to the transfer-of-power of roles.
 ----> delete or REVISE cuz I don't understand

Author: Its important to justify design decisions hence I disagree with the removal of to reduce the scope of the coursework

Reviewer: then revise the sentence plz..
what is the compelling design decision here?

Author: what is the compelling design decision here? I don't understand this question

Reviewer: the design choice cannot be understood from this wording ....
is what I'm saying

\end{rule_IIGO}

\begin{rule_IIGO} \label{rule:must_appoint_elected_island}
    The role $X$ has the \emph{permission} to \emph{declare the winner} $W$ for an election $E$ if $W = W^{*}$, where $W^{*}$ is the winner produced by \emph{calling} a vote for the election $E$.
\end {rule_IIGO}

Unlike the speaker, the process of election is more regimented. The power of calling a vote for an election and the power of declaring the result are combined into one action. The decision came as a result of motion to simplify the system for implementation. However, the powers are still, somewhat, kept seperate. When facilitationg an election the roles still have the option to declare a winner of their choosing. Rule~\ref{rule:must_appoint_elected_island} is what governs this choice. The agents don't, however, have the option to not declare a result at all, holding an election will always result in an declaration of the winner. 

\section{Budget and Salary}
\subsection{Budget}
%Actions associated with the IIGO have an associated cost that is defined as a configuration parameter. The institutional-power-enabled actions of  identified to require a "computational" component are:

> For the simulation we have defined the resources gathered by the islands to be endogenous. Hence we assume that self-organisation will consume those resources and institutional-power actions in the IIGO have an associated cost. The institutional-power actions with such a cost are:

Reviewer: For the simulation,

Reviewer: **institutional-power-enabled actions** in the IIGO

%that is defined as a configuration parameter. The institutional-power-enabled actions of  identified to require a "computational" component are:

%We have defined the resource to be an endogenous one, hence any computation surrounding the distribution of the resource must use up some of that resource. 
\begin{itemize}

> \item President: Selecting a rule from the rule proposal list.

Reviewer: no, you cannot write like this. 
President: ---> looks bad.
you can say President selecting.....

\item President: Deciding the amount of individual taxation.

> \item President: Decide the allocation of resources distributed from the common pool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\item President: Deciding the allocation of resources from the common pool.
```

\item Speaker: Calling a vote and calculating the winner.
\item Judge: Inspecting an island's actions.
\item Judge: Inspecting an island's action history retroactively.
\item Declaring (e.g. \textit{announcing} the result of a vote).
\item Holding an election.
\item Monitoring a role.
\end{itemize}

IIGO has been designed to act in the common good. Therefore IIGO-related costs will be directly withdrawn from the common pool. Since the common pool is considered communal property of the archipelago, there are rules in place to limit how much each role is allowed to spend in order to perform its own institutional-power-enabled actions. This is the reason for defining the \emph{budget} and keeping it separate for each of the three IIGO roles.

\begin{rule_IIGO} \label{rule:budget}
    %Each role has the \emph{obligation} to pay the salary of amount $S$ to another if and only if the amount paid $S'$ is equal to $S$.

>     Each role has the \emph{permission} to act on a institutional-power action with a cost if the budget after performing said action would be negative.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Each role has the \emph{permission} to act on an institutional-power action with an associated cost if the budget would not become negative as a result of performing the action.
```

>     Each role has the \emph{permission} to act on an institutional-power action with an associated cost if the budget would not become negative as a result of performing the action.

Reviewer: **institutional-power-enabled**

performing **this** action

 \end{rule_IIGO}

> When a role acts on an institutional-power action with a cost, the cost associated with this action is subtracted from the role's \emph{budget}. If Rule~\ref{rule:budget} is in play, a budget of zero or less means that the role does not have the \emph{permission} to perform any of its institutional-power actions. The removal of Rule~\ref{rule:budget} from the rules in play means the role is permitted to perform as many such actions as it would like (as long as those actions are not governed by other rules). 

Reviewer: **institutional-power-enabled** action with a cost..

we keep using this word all over the section, we have to be conssistent

Reviewer: we gotta need to ctrl+f all of them.
you can ignore this for now 
@Spruudis

> The \emph{budget} is persistent across turns. This means that, assuming nothing else affects the budget, if a role has $100$ resources in its budget at the start of a turn and spends $10$ resources, the same role has $90$ resources in its budget at the start of next turn. On the other hand, islands can choose to increase the budget periodically every turn. The islands can choose the magnitude of this periodic increase by voting on a rule.

Reviewer: periodically **at** every turn

Author: ```suggestion
The \emph{budget} is persistent across turns. This means that assuming nothing else affects the budget if a role has $100$ resources in its budget at the start of a turn and spends $10$ resources, the same role has $90$ resources in its budget at the start of next turn. On the other hand, islands can choose to increase the budget periodically at every turn. The islands can choose the magnitude of this periodic increase by voting on a rule.
```

\subsection{Transfer-of-power}
\label{subsec:transfer-of-power}

> For the scope of this project, we chose elections to be the only system of power transfer for the islands to utilise. The islands that hold institutional power are the decision group of the archipelago. They decide on taxes, allocations and sanctions. By holding an election for the institutional roles, the islands are not directly included in the decision group, but they do participate in deciding who will occupy these roles and thus who makes the aforementioned decisions. Elections also open up another avenue for opinion formation to have an effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the scope of this project, we chose elections to be the only system of transfer-of-power for the islands to utilise. The islands that hold institutional power are the decision group of the archipelago. They decide on taxes, allocations and sanctions. By holding an election for the institutional roles, the islands are not directly included in the decision group, but they do participate in deciding who will occupy these roles and thus, who makes the aforementioned decisions. Elections also open up another avenue for opinion formation to have an effect.
```

Author: Firstly, "system of power transfer" just sounds and reads better than" system of transfer-of-power". Second, in this context I use "system of power transfer" as a description of the idea of "transfer-of-power", hence it also fits logically. 
```suggestion
For the scope of this project, we chose elections to be the only system of power transfer for the islands to utilise. The islands that hold institutional power are the decision group of the archipelago. They decide on taxes, allocations and sanctions. By holding an election for the institutional roles, the islands are not directly included in the decision group, but they do participate in deciding who will occupy these roles and thus, who makes the aforementioned decisions. Elections also open up another avenue for opinion formation to have an effect.
```

Reviewer: ok

\begin{itemize}

>     \item Each role has the \emph{power} to call an election vote and declare the winner (see Figure~ \ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO} for the power transfer cycle).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item Each role has the \emph{power} to call an election vote and declare the winner (see Figure~\ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO} for the transfer-of-power cycle).
```

\end{itemize}

We note that:
\begin{enumerate}

>     \item The Speaker conducts an election to appoint a new Judge.

Reviewer: good suggestion -- agreed

    \item The Judge conducts an election to appoint a new President.
    \item The President conducts an election to appoint a new Speaker.
\end{enumerate}
Refer to the Figure~ \ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO} for further clarification about the transfer-of-power cycle.

> We introduce a \emph{term} length to increase the diversity of the decision group. If the Rule~\ref{rule:roles_must_hold_election} is in play, the roles are obliged to hold an election every $N$ turns. To reduce the scope of the coursework, the term length is defined as a configuration parameter. Thus we reduce the complexity of rules surrounding the election of roles and hence the reasoning the agents have to do with regard to said rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We introduce a \emph{term} length to increase the diversity of the decision group. If the Rule~\ref{rule:roles_must_hold_election} is in play, the roles are obliged to hold an election every $N$ turns. To reduce the scope of the coursework, the term length is defined as a configuration parameter. Thus, we reduce the complexity of rules surrounding the election of roles and also the reasoning the agents have to do with this regard to the specified rules.
```

Author: ```suggestion
We introduce a \emph{term} length to increase the diversity of the decision group. If the Rule~\ref{rule:roles_must_hold_election} is in play, the roles are obliged to hold an election every $N$ turns. To reduce the scope of the coursework, the term length is defined as a configuration parameter. Thus, we reduce the complexity of rules surrounding the election of roles and hence the reasoning the agents have to do with regard to said rules.
```

Agents have less to reason about as a result of simpler rules, hence the word "hence" is appropriate

Reviewer: ok what is 'said' rules?

Author: rules surrounding the election

Reviewer: I don't think we can call them 'said' rules ... rewording is needed

Author: ```suggestion
We introduce a \emph{term} length to increase the diversity of the decision group. If the Rule~\ref{rule:roles_must_hold_election} is in play, the roles are obliged to hold an election every $N$ turns. To reduce the scope of the coursework, the term length is defined as a configuration parameter. Thus, we reduce the complexity of rules surrounding the election of roles and hence the reasoning the agents have to do with regard to these rules.
```

\begin{rule_IIGO} \label{rule:roles_must_hold_election}

>     The role $X$ has the \emph{obligation} to conduct a vote for the election of $Y$ if and only if $Y$ has been in power for more turns than the turn length or if role $Z$ has made a monitoring announcement that indicates wrongdoing by $Y$

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The role $X$ has the \emph{obligation} to conduct a vote for the election of $Y$ if and only if $Y$ has been in power for more turns than the turn length or if role $Z$ has made a monitoring announcement that indicates wrongdoing by $Y$.
```

\end{rule_IIGO}

\begin{rule_IIGO} \label{rule:must_appoint_elected_island}
    The role $X$ has the \emph{permission} to \emph{declare the winner} $W$ for an election $E$ if $W = W^{*}$, where $W^{*}$ is the winner produced by \emph{calling} a vote for the election $E$.
\end {rule_IIGO}

> Unlike the speaker, the process of election is more regimented. The power of calling a vote for an election and the power of declaring the result are combined into one action. The decision came as a result of motion to simplify the system for implementation. However, the powers are still, somewhat, kept separate. When facilitating an election the roles still have the option to declare a winner of their choosing. Rule~\ref{rule:must_appoint_elected_island} is what governs this choice. The agents don't, however, have the option to not declare a result at all, holding an election will always result in an declaration of the winner.

Reviewer 2: Not sure about the first bit but it should be something like  'Unlike the Speaker's blah blah,...' whatever blah blah is
```suggestion
Unlike the rule vote held by the Speaker, the process of election is more regimented. The power of calling a vote for an election and the power of declaring the result are combined into one action. This decision came as a result of a motion to simplify the system for implementation. However, the powers are still kept somewhat separate. When facilitating an election, the roles still have the option to declare a winner of their choosing. Rule~\ref{rule:must_appoint_elected_island} is what governs this choice. However, the agents do not have the option to not declare a result at all: holding an election will always result in a declaration of the winner.
```

Reviewer: I think @preetl  suggestion is a good one

\section{Budget and Salary}
\subsection{Budget}
%Actions associated with the IIGO have an associated cost that is defined as a configuration parameter. The institutional-power-enabled actions of  identified to require a "computational" component are:

> For the simulation we have defined the resources gathered by the islands to be endogenous. Hence we assume that self-organization will consume those resources and institutional-power-enabled actions in the IIGO have an associated cost. The institutional-power actions with such a cost are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the simulation, we have defined the resources gathered by the islands to be endogenous. Hence we assume that self-organization will consume those resources and institutional-power-enabled actions in the IIGO have an associated cost. The institutional power actions with such a cost are:
```

Author: See comments above about  "institutional-power-enabled" vs  "institutionally-power-enabled"
```suggestion
For the simulation, we have defined the resources gathered by the islands to be endogenous. Hence we assume that self-organization will consume those resources and institutional-power-enabled actions in the IIGO have an associated cost. The institutional-power-enabled actions with such a cost are:
```

%that is defined as a configuration parameter. The institutional-power-enabled actions of  identified to require a "computational" component are:

%We have defined the resource to be an endogenous one, hence any computation surrounding the distribution of the resource must use up some of that resource.
\begin{itemize}
\item President selecting a rule from the rule proposal list.

> \item President deciding the amount of individual taxation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\item President deciding the amount of individual taxation for each island.
```

Author: individual implies for each islands

Reviewer: well..... this is clearer I would say

Reviewer: what is 'individual' in our CW is a bit vague

Author: Don't want to use for each island because the way we have it in code, you either decide the tax for all or for none. For each island makes it sound like that action is individual rather than the tax.
```suggestion
\item President deciding the amount of taxation.
```

\item President deciding the allocation of resources from the common pool.
\item Speaker calling a vote and calculating the winner.
\item Judge inspecting an island's actions.

> \item Judge inspecting an island's action history retroactively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\item Judge inspecting an island's action history retroactively.
```
```suggestion
\item Judge inspecting an island's action history retrospectively.
```

\item Declaring (e.g. \textit{announcing} the result of a vote).
\item Holding an election.
\item Monitoring a role.
\end{itemize}

IIGO has been designed to act in the common good. Therefore IIGO-related costs will be directly withdrawn from the common pool. Since the common pool is considered communal property of the archipelago, there are rules in place to limit how much each role is allowed to spend in order to perform its own institutional-power-enabled actions. This is the reason for defining the \emph{budget} and keeping it separate for each of the three IIGO roles.

\begin{rule_IIGO} \label{rule:budget}
    %Each role has the \emph{obligation} to pay the salary of amount $S$ to another if and only if the amount paid $S'$ is equal to $S$.

>     Each role has the \emph{permission} to act on an institutional-power action with an associated cost if the budget would not become negative as a result of performing the action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Each role has the \emph{permission} to act on an institutional-power-enabled action with an associated cost if the budget would not become negative as a result of performing the action.
```

Author: ```suggestion
    Each role has the \emph{permission} to act on an institutional-power-enabled action with an associated cost if the budget would not become negative as a result of performing the action.
```

Read as (institutional-power)-enabled action. How do you read institutionally-power-enabled? Neither (institutionally-power)-enabled nor institutionally-(power-enabled) make sense to me

Reviewer: you are right sorry

 \end{rule_IIGO}

> When a role acts on an institutional-power-enabled action with a cost, the cost associated with this action is subtracted from the role's \emph{budget}. If Rule~\ref{rule:budget} is in play, a budget of zero or less means that the role does not have the \emph{permission} to perform any of its institutional-power actions. The removal of Rule~\ref{rule:budget} from the rules in play means the role is permitted to perform as many such actions as it would like (as long as those actions are not governed by other rules).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a role acts on an institutional-power-enabled action that comes with a cost, the cost associated with this action is subtracted from the role's \emph{budget}. If Rule~\ref{rule:budget} is in play, a budget of zero or less means that the role does not have the \emph{permission} to perform any of its institutional-power actions. The removal of Rule~\ref{rule:budget} from the rules in play means the role is permitted to perform as many such actions as it would like (as long as those actions are not governed by other rules).
```

Author: An action does not come with a cost. The action has a cost

Reviewer: ok

> The \emph{budget} is persistent across turns. This means that assuming nothing else affects the budget if a role has $100$ resources in its budget at the start of a turn and spends $10$ resources, the same role has $90$ resources in its budget at the start of next turn. On the other hand, islands can choose to increase the budget periodically at every turn. The islands can choose the magnitude of this periodic increase by voting on a rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \emph{budget} is persistent across turns. This means that, assuming nothing else affects the budget, if a role has $100$ resources in its budget at the start of a turn and spends $10$ resources, the same role has $90$ resources in its budget at the start of next turn. On the other hand, islands can choose to increase the budget periodically at every turn. The islands can choose the magnitude of this periodic increase by voting on a rule.
```

Reviewer: subclause or smth -- comma is needed

    %The budget is increased by an amount $N$ every turn.
%\end{rule_IIGO}

%This rule means that, assuming nothing else affects the budget, if a budget is set to increase by 10 resources every turn and the budget is a 100 resources in turn one, the budget is 110 resources in turn 2. Setting this rule to 0 is equal to removing this rule and it means that the budget is never increased.

\subsection{Salary}
\label{subsec:salary}

> A salary is paid to each role in power as an incentive to be in power. Since our system has regimented the means of power transfer to be an election, this incentive extends to acting in a publicly approved way. %Hence, each role has the \emph{power} to pay a salary to another role following the salary cycle in Figure~\ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A salary is paid to each role in power as an incentive to be in power. Since our system has regimented the means of power transfer to be an election, this incentive extends to acting in a publicly approved way. %Hence, each role has the \emph{power} to pay a salary to another role following the salary cycle in Figure~\ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO}.
```

Reviewer: ok

\subsection{Salary}
\label{subsec:salary}

> A salary is paid to each role in power as an incentive to be in power. Since our system has regimented the means of power transfer to be an election, this incentive extends to acting in a publicly approved way. %Hence, each role has the \emph{power} to pay a salary to another role following the salary cycle in Figure~\ref{fig:cycles_in_IIGO}.

Reviewer: DO NOT say power transfer.

say **transfer-of-power**

Author: the means of power transfer sounds better here. I disagree. I think it's ok to vary both mean the same thing at the end of the day.

Reviewer: ok
